CC-20997: Push notification integration guide. (#1560)
spryker/spryker-docs: _includes/pbc/all/install-features/202304.0/install-push-notification-feature.md

| PushNotificationSubscriptionCriteria                 | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationSubscriptionCriteria                 |
| PushNotificationProviderCollection                   | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationProviderCollection                   |
| PushNotificationProviderCollectionRequest            | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationProviderCollectionRequest            |
| PushNotificationProviderCollectionResponse           | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationProviderCollectionResponse           |
| PushNotificationProvider                             | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationProvider                             |
| PushNotificationProviderConditions                   | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationProviderConditions                   |
| PushNotificationSubscriptionConditions               | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationSubscriptionConditions               |

> | ErrorCollection                                      | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/ErrorCollection                                      |

Author: Usually, we add only new transfers, all infrastructural ones already exist in the system.

| PushNotificationSubscriptionResourcePlugin | Registers the `push-notification-subscriptions` resource. |               | Spryker\Glue\PushNotificationsBackendApi\Plugin\GlueApplication |

**src/Pyz/Glue/GlueBackendApiApplication/GlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Glue\GlueBackendApiApplication;

use Spryker\Glue\GlueBackendApiApplication\GlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider as SprykerGlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider;
use Spryker\Glue\PushNotificationsBackendApi\Plugin\GlueApplication\PushNotificationSubscriptionResourcePlugin;

class GlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerGlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider
{
    /**
     * @return array<\Spryker\Glue\GlueApplicationExtension\Dependency\Plugin\ResourceInterface>
     */
    protected function getResourcePlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            new PushNotificationSubscriptionResourcePlugin(),
        ];
    }
}

```
---
{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

Ensure that the plugins work correctly:

1. In order to test the functionality, you will need to download our demo application.

> 2. Clone demo application: GitHub - https://github.com/ievgen-malykhin/web-push-php-example

Reviewer: I think we should move demo application to the corporate repository.

> This document describes how to integrate the Push notification feature into a Spryker project.

Author: https://release.spryker.com/features/view/139

| PushNotificationSubscriptionConditions               | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationSubscriptionConditions               |
| ErrorCollection                                      | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/ErrorCollection                                      |
| PushNotificationCollection                           | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationCollection                           |
| PushNotificationCriteria                             | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationCriteria                             |
| PushNotificationConditions                           | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/PushNotificationConditions                           |
| ApiPushNotificationSubscriptionAttributes            | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/ApiPushNotificationSubscriptionAttributes            |
| ApiPushNotificationGroupAttributes                   | class | created | src/Generated/Shared/Transfer/ApiPushNotificationGroupAttributes                   |

{% endinfo_block %}

### 3) Set up configuration

> 1. If you want to make `push-notification-subscriptions` resource protected, adjust the protected paths configuration:

Reviewer 2: If this step is optional, then:
```suggestion
1. Optional: To make the `push-notification-subscriptions` resource protected, adjust the protected paths configuration:
```

> 1. If you want to make `push-notification-subscriptions` resource protected, adjust the protected paths configuration:

Reviewer 2: If it's mandatory, then
```suggestion
1. To make the `push-notification-subscriptions` resource protected, adjust the protected paths configuration:
```

| PushNotificationWebPushPhpProviderInstallerPlugin | Adds the `web-push` provider to the list of available push notification providers. |               | Spryker\Zed\PushNotificationWebPushPhp\Communication\Plugin\Installer |

**src/Pyz/Zed/Installer/InstallerDependencyProvider.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Zed\Installer;

use Spryker\Zed\Installer\InstallerDependencyProvider as SprykerInstallerDependencyProvider;
use Spryker\Zed\PushNotificationWebPushPhp\Communication\Plugin\Installer\PushNotificationWebPushPhpProviderInstallerPlugin;

class InstallerDependencyProvider extends SprykerInstallerDependencyProvider
{
    /**
     * @return array<\Spryker\Zed\Installer\Dependency\Plugin\InstallerPluginInterface|\Spryker\Zed\InstallerExtension\Dependency\Plugin\InstallerPluginInterface>
     */
    public function getInstallerPlugins(): array
    {   
        return [
            new PushNotificationWebPushPhpProviderInstallerPlugin(),
        ];
    }
}

```

{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

Ensure that the installer plugin works correctly:

1. Execute install plugins: 
```bash

> docker/sdk console setup:init-db`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker/sdk console setup:init-db
```

```

2. Check that the `web-push-php` push notification provider exists in the `spy_push_notification_provider` database table.

{% endinfo_block %}

3. Enable the following console command plugins:

| PLUGIN                                           | SPECIFICATION                                                    | PREREQUISITES | NAMESPACE                                          |
|--------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| SendPushNotificationConsole                      | Sends notifications in an async way.                             |               | Spryker\Zed\PushNotification\Communication\Console |

> | DeleteExpiredPushNotificationSubscriptionConsole | Delete expired push notification subscriptions from Persistence. |               | Spryker\Zed\PushNotification\Communication\Console |

Reviewer 2: If its'a a layer, entity, folder, etc name, then enclose it in `code-fond` as follows:
```suggestion
| DeleteExpiredPushNotificationSubscriptionConsole | Delete expired push notification subscriptions from `Persistence`. |               | Spryker\Zed\PushNotification\Communication\Console |
```

**src/Pyz/Zed/Console/ConsoleDependencyProvider.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Zed\Console;

use Spryker\Zed\Console\ConsoleDependencyProvider as SprykerConsoleDependencyProvider;
use Spryker\Zed\PushNotification\Communication\Console\DeleteExpiredPushNotificationSubscriptionConsole;
use Spryker\Zed\PushNotification\Communication\Console\SendPushNotificationConsole;

class ConsoleDependencyProvider extends SprykerConsoleDependencyProvider
{
     /**
     * @param \Spryker\Zed\Kernel\Container $container
     *
     * @return array<\Symfony\Component\Console\Command\Command>
     */
    protected function getConsoleCommands(Container $container): array
    { 
        return [
            new DeleteExpiredPushNotificationSubscriptionConsole(),
            new SendPushNotificationConsole(),
        ];
    }
}

```

> 4. Enable the Backend API by registering the plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To enable the Backend API, register the plugin:
```

**src/Pyz/Glue/GlueBackendApiApplication/GlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider.php**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Glue\GlueBackendApiApplication;

use Spryker\Glue\GlueBackendApiApplication\GlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider as SprykerGlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider;
use Spryker\Glue\PushNotificationsBackendApi\Plugin\GlueApplication\PushNotificationSubscriptionResourcePlugin;

class GlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerGlueBackendApiApplicationDependencyProvider
{
    /**
     * @return array<\Spryker\Glue\GlueApplicationExtension\Dependency\Plugin\ResourceInterface>
     */
    protected function getResourcePlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            new PushNotificationSubscriptionResourcePlugin(),
        ];
    }
}

```

{% info_block warningBox "Verification" %}

Ensure that the plugins work correctly:
1. To test the functionality, create a simple single-page demo application.
2. Generate VAPID keys through the online generator https://vapidkeys.com/.
3. Create a directory for the demo application: `mkdir push_notification_spa`.
4. In the `push_notification_spa` directory, create the following files:

> **.../push_notification_spa/index.html**

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we provide a full path? Is it enough to have only part of it?

Author: The full path we don't know because the customers have to create the folder on their own.

              publicKey: key ? btoa(String.fromCharCode.apply(null, new Uint8Array(key))) : null,
              authToken: token ? btoa(String.fromCharCode.apply(null, new Uint8Array(token))) : null,
            }
          }
        }
      }),
    }).then(() => subscription);
  }
});
```
</details>

**.../push_notification_spa/serviceWorker.js**

```js
self.addEventListener('push', function (event) {
    if (!(self.Notification && self.Notification.permission === 'granted')) {
        return;
    }

    const sendNotification = body => {
        const title = "Web Push example";

        return self.registration.showNotification(title, {
            body,
        });
    };

    if (event.data) {
        const message = event.data.text();
        event.waitUntil(sendNotification(message));
    }
});
```

5. Setup credentials:
   1. Open `.../push_notification_spa/app.js` and replace the `applicationServerKey` variable value with your VAPID public key.
   2. In `.../push_notification_spa/app.js`, find the `getToken()` method and replace the credentials with the user that works in your system. 
6. Run the local HTTP server with the demo app:
```bash
php -S localhost:8000
```

> 7. To enable the feature in the system, follow the steps written in the integration guide.

Reviewer 2: What steps? Add a link to those steps or give more details.

> 8. Enable the push notification by clicking the button on the page.

Reviewer 2: Is this button obvious to the user? Probably we should specify the name of the button.

              authToken: token ? btoa(String.fromCharCode.apply(null, new Uint8Array(token))) : null,
            }
          }
        }
      }),
    }).then(() => subscription);
  }
});
```
</details>

**.../push_notification_spa/serviceWorker.js**

```js
self.addEventListener('push', function (event) {
    if (!(self.Notification && self.Notification.permission === 'granted')) {
        return;
    }

    const sendNotification = body => {
        const title = "Web Push example";

        return self.registration.showNotification(title, {
            body,
        });
    };

    if (event.data) {
        const message = event.data.text();
        event.waitUntil(sendNotification(message));
    }
});
```

5. Setup credentials:
   1. Open `.../push_notification_spa/app.js` and replace the `applicationServerKey` variable value with your `VAPID` public key.
   2. In `.../push_notification_spa/app.js`, find the `getToken()` method and replace the credentials with the user that works in your system. 
6. Run the local HTTP server with the demo app:
```bash
php -S localhost:8000
```

7. Integrate the Push Notification feature by following the current guide.

> 8. To enable the push notification, on the page, click the **Enable browser notifications** button.

Reviewer 2: @abitskil What page are you mentioning here? Can you add its name or clarify on what page the action takes place?
For example:

> To enable the push notification, on the **PAGE_NAME** page, click the **Enable browser notifications** button. 

Replace the PAGE_NAME placeholder with the real page name

> 9. To create a push notification subscription, on the page, click the **Create Push notification subscription** button.

Reviewer 2: @abitskil same question

              authToken: token ? btoa(String.fromCharCode.apply(null, new Uint8Array(token))) : null,
            }
          }
        }
      }),
    }).then(() => subscription);
  }
});
```
</details>

**.../push_notification_spa/serviceWorker.js**

```js
self.addEventListener('push', function (event) {
    if (!(self.Notification && self.Notification.permission === 'granted')) {
        return;
    }

    const sendNotification = body => {
        const title = "Web Push example";

        return self.registration.showNotification(title, {
            body,
        });
    };

    if (event.data) {
        const message = event.data.text();
        event.waitUntil(sendNotification(message));
    }
});
```

5. Setup credentials:
   1. Open `.../push_notification_spa/app.js` and replace the `applicationServerKey` variable value with your `VAPID` public key.
   2. In `.../push_notification_spa/app.js`, find the `getToken()` method and replace the credentials with the user that works in your system. 
6. Run the local HTTP server with the demo app:
```bash
php -S localhost:8000
```

7. Integrate the Push Notification feature by following the current guide.

> 8. To enable the push notification, on the `Web Push sandbox` page, click the **Enable browser notifications** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. To enable the push notification, on the **Web Push sandbox** page, click the **Enable browser notifications** button.
```

> 9. To create a push notification subscription, on the `Web Push sandbox` page, click the **Create Push notification subscription** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. To create a push notification subscription, on the **Web Push sandbox** page, click the **Create Push notification subscription** button.
```
